---
title: "Testimonials."
tags: []
page_id: "1468109870"
site: "generalarchivesdirectorate1"
slug: "help"
revision: 0
revision_id: "1541858525"
author: 9720100
timestamp: 1770620229
---

Client Testimonials.

Here is what some of our past participants had to say about their trek and tour in morocco:

Monica Dingle (Marsh 2009)

from Canada

Hello Mohamed

This email is slightly belated, but I wanted to say "thank you" for the wonderful trip that you organized for me and Josh (the Canadians) in March. To hike the
High Atlas mountains and see Berber life in the many villages we passed was a very special and neat experience.

I also very much enjoyed the time that Josh and I spent with your family. Your wife prepared so many lovely meals and I fell in love with your beautiful children! I have attached two photos of them to this email.

All the best to you and your family,

Caz Petrequin (december 2009)

from Sweden

Hello Hamid

I am home again and wanted to Thank you very much for organising such a great trip.
Your organisation was perfect and made it a very relaxing trip for us.
Ken and I loved our trek, and your country.
I was very kind of you to welcome us into your home and it was really appreciated.

Lachen and Abdul ( and his mule ) were great and please send on my thanks to them too.
I have Lachens address and will develop my photos and send some to him.

If anyone needs a recommendation from us , do not hesitate to put them in touch with me.

Thank you again Mohamed

Elena Miller (April 2010)

From: Petersburg

Dear Mohamed!

Today I have meeting with some participants of group.

They said many warm words to address of Jamal, cooker and all staff ( good food, excellent care and attention to all requests, skilled guides, etc).

They noted that accommodation in Imlil was excellent!

They said that combine tour idea ( sightseeng+mountains+coast) is good and the tour is with good dinamics.

Marrakech sightseeing with horse transport is very nice.

All participants would like to visit Morocco once more! I think that it is the best praise!

Warm regards from all of us.

**Alan Kavanagh (Marsh 2010)

From: Finland**

Dear Mohamed

My email is very late but I want to say thank you again for arranging my trek in Toubkal in March 2010. It was a very good experience and I hope to repeat it sometime in the future!

Please give my thanks and best wishes to Hamid, who was a very good guide.

Best wishes to you and your family!

**Richard lowens (june 2010)

From: Norway**

It seems like a long time since Ken and I were trekking in morocco.

W e had a great time and we realise that we owe you a lot of thanks for tour great organisation and your team of Lahcen and Abde and his beautiful mule!

We enjoyed the mint tea in the mountains area.

**Lenore and Bob (August 2010)

From: Australia**

Thanks very much to you, Jamil and Mohammed for our wonderful trek in the Atlas Mountains. It was a highlight of our holiday in Morocco.

Please find attached the photos we took of your lovely daughter. We’ll send some photos of the trek in a separate email.

Best wishes to your wife and family.

Kind regards

Lenore and Bob

**Kristine havet (February 2011)

From: USA**

Dear Mohamed,

I hope you are doing fine! We so much enjoyed our stay in your beautiful country that we would like to come back this summer with our children (2 girls: 3,5 years - 5,5 years old by then).

**Laura and Sidra (Marsh 2011)

From: Canada**

hi Mohamed,

Thank you so much for the wonderful tour you and Hassan gave us of your community and Toubkal. We really enjoyed this experience and will certainly never forget it.

Sidra and I are back in Toronto now, safe and sound, and are excited to tell our friends all about our adventures!

Here are some of the photos we took. I hope you can view them from this email. Please let me know if you can't, and I will send them in another format. Feel free to use them on your website if you wish.

Thank you again and I hope that things continue to go well with your business, your guest house and most of all your family.

With many thanks,

Laura

**Hans and Linge (Marsh 2012)

From: Norway**

Thank you very much for the splendid hike you and your men made for us on our first trip to Morocco. It will not be the last. It was very interesting to see Berber life up in the valleys and of course the climbing of Jebel Toubkal in the beautiful morning sun was a highlight. Berber food is splendid! We are looking forward to seeing you, your children and men again soon. If you have other proposals for hiking in the area High/Lower Atlas, please inform us. The pictures from the trip have been admired from our neighbours/friends.

Our very best regards

Hans

**Anna Giséle (June 2013)

From: Australia**

Hello Mohamed,

Thank you for this trek in the Berber villages. We keep an unforgettable memory. That we really liked: the scenery, walking, discovering another culture, way of life. We also enjoyed your performance guide and cook and mule. Anyway, all members of the group think only one thing: to return.

**Thank you again.

Anna**

