---
title: "Multiple Recalls Hit the UTAU Voice Synthesis Market, All Linked to the Same Developer"
tags: []
page_id: "1469144544"
site: "rpcauthority"
slug: "rumor-n:multiple-recalls-hit-the-utau-voice-synthesis-market"
revision: 0
revision_id: "1545932677"
author: 2327589
timestamp: 1786595861
---

All available intelligence was initially transmitted through the Academy of True Art, with portions of the communications exhibiting signs of information-censorship responses triggered by memetic agents. In an apparent attempt to compete with major GOIs, Nucorp entered the already saturated voice synthesis market with a new product. For reasons that remain unclear, however, the company subsequently moved to recall it. There are indications that, amid intensifying competition, Nucorp attempted to establish contact with GOIs across Asia, possibly with the aim of building its own containment network around them and securing a competitive advantage for its products. During Nucorp's entry into the market, The **Descendants Of Yggdrasil** appear to have intervened as a financial backer. Funds were transferred to Nucorp in multiple installments through a shell company. Although the product had already entered general circulation, rumors among users within the industry suggested that it was being voluntarily recalled due to serious security concerns.

In reality, however, it appears that the Academy of True Art and the Descendants Of Yggdrasil, both of which were involved in its development, had been buying up the products themselves and deliberately creating a state of artificial scarcity. The situation is further complicated, however, by the apparent involvement of multiple AOIs in an ongoing information war. At present, there is simply not enough intelligence to determine what is actually taking place behind the scenes.

The only thing that can be said with any confidence is that events appear to be progressing toward a point where severe memetic contamination may be unavoidable.

