---
title: "Security & Clearance Levels"
tags: ["information", "lore"]
page_id: "86650111"
site: "rpcauthority"
slug: "security-clearance-levels"
revision: 1
revision_id: "125387080"
author: 4240294
timestamp: 1529021756
---

+ Overview

Authority security clearances granted to personnel represent the highest level or type of information to which they can be granted access. However, having any given clearance level does not automatically grant access to all information at that level: personnel are only granted access to information on a "need-to-know" basis and at the discretion of the designated disclosure officer overseeing their respective departments.

++ Level 0 (Informal)
Level 0 security clearance is an informal designation given to D-class personnel and contractors who have no knowledge of the Authority. At level 0, all access to Authority knowledge is restricted and only the bare minimum of information should be divulged in order to ensure these personnel perform their duties, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.  

++ Level 1 (Confidential)
Level 1 security clearances designate a staff member who is a formal employee of The Authority but does not interact with or require access to RPCs. Level 1 security clearances are typically granted to personnel working in clerical, logistics, or janitorial positions at facilities with containment capability or otherwise must handle sensitive information.

++ Level 2 (Restricted)
Level 2 security clearances are given to security and research personnel that require direct access to information regarding anomalous objects and entities in containment. Most research staff, field agents, and containment specialists hold a Level 2 security clearance.

++ Level 3 (Secret)
Level 3 security clearances are given to senior security and research personnel that require in-depth data regarding the source, recovery circumstances, and long-term planning for anomalous objects and entities in containment. Most senior research staff, project managers, security officers, response team members, and Mobile Task Force operatives hold a Level 3 security clearance.

++ Level 4 (Top Secret)
Level 4 security clearances are given to senior administration that require access to site-wide and/or regional intelligence as well as long-term strategic data regarding Authority operations and research projects. Level 4 security clearances are typically only held by Site Directors, Security Directors, or Mobile Task Force Commanders.

++ Level 5 (Overlord)
Level 5 security clearances are given to the highest-ranking administrative personnel within the Authority and grant effectively unlimited access to all strategic and otherwise sensitive data. Level 5 security clearances are typically only granted to O5 Council members and selected staff.

