---
title: "Security & Clearance Levels"
tags: ["information", "lore"]
page_id: "86650111"
site: "rpcauthority"
slug: "security-clearance-levels"
revision: 6
revision_id: "125947884"
author: 4240294
timestamp: 1529275050
---

+ Overview

Authority security clearances granted to personnel represent the highest level or type of information to which they can be granted access. However, having any given clearance level does not automatically grant access to all information at that level: personnel are only granted access to information on a "need-to-know" basis and at the discretion of the designated disclosure officer overseeing their respective departments.

++ Level 0 (Informal)
Level 0 security clearance is an informal designation given to D-class personnel and contractors who have no knowledge of the Authority. At level 0, all access to Authority knowledge is restricted and only the bare minimum of information should be divulged in order to ensure these personnel perform their duties, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.  

++ Level 1 (Confidential)
Level 1 security clearances designate a staff member who is a formal employee of The Authority but does not interact with or require access to RPCs. Level 1 security clearances are typically granted to personnel working in clerical, logistics, or janitorial positions at facilities with containment capability or otherwise must handle sensitive information.

++ Level 2 (Restricted)
Level 2 security clearances are given to security and research personnel that require direct access to information regarding anomalous objects and entities in containment. Most research staff, field agents, and containment specialists hold a Level 2 security clearance.

++ Level 3 (Secret)
Level 3 security clearances are given to senior security and research personnel that require in-depth data regarding the source, recovery circumstances, and long-term planning for anomalous objects and entities in containment. Most senior research staff, project managers, security officers, response team members, and Mobile Strike Team operatives hold a Level 3 security clearance.

++ Level 4 (Top Secret)
Level 4 security clearances are given to senior administration that require access to site-wide and/or regional intelligence as well as long-term strategic data regarding Authority operations and research projects. Level 4 security clearances are typically only held by Site Directors, Security Directors, or Mobile Strike Team Commanders.

++ Level 5 (Overlord)
Level 5 security clearances are given to the highest-ranking administrative personnel within the Authority and grant effectively unlimited access to all strategic and otherwise sensitive data. Level 5 security clearances are typically only granted to O5 Council members and selected staff.

+ Security
The Security branch of The Authority is responsible for ensuring the safety of all Authority personnel and recapturing RPCs that escape containment. Where there is an Authority presence, there is assuredly a security team close by to act on any threats they see. In addition, Authority security possess an advanced arsenal of small arms, artillery, and nuclear weapon should the need arise for large-scale offensive or defensive operations. Security personnel are hardened veterans, drafted from law enforcement and military organizations all over the world and ready to contain and neutralize any and all threats to the Authority. There are two components that make up Authority Security: Legion and The Mobile Strike Forces, which work with the Regional Security Directors to ensure the safety of the world

++ Legion
The Legion is the general protection arm of Authority Security. Legion forces are typically assigned the following duties: staff protection, low-level asset retrieval, and first response. Additionally, Legion forces are capable of large-scale warfare and possess a full arsenal of air, land, and sea weapons and vehicles. The Legion is structured as a traditional military, starting with fire teams of four all the way up to full-size battalions under the command of a Lieutenant Colonel. The Authority maintains multiple battalions on every continent and ocean.

++ Mobile Strike Forces
The Mobile Strike Forces (MSF) are the special operations arm of Authority Security. MSF personnel are the most highly-trained and battle-hardened operators in the entire world, and will go to any lengths to protect the Authority and the Earth. The MSF are assigned the most delicate and dangerous of missions: assassination, high-risk asset retrieval, infiltration, and low-information exploration operations. The MSF are equipped with the very cutting-edge of technology, with personnel supplied experimental weapons, implants, and utilities to ensure the job gets done. Unlike Legion forces, MSF has a relatively small pool of personnel. Each Authority Region has an assigned Mobile Strike Force under the command of a Lieutenant Colonel, who is in charge of a platoon of MSF Soldiers. Within the platoon, there are typically ten squads, each composed of 10 man teams. These teams are referred to as Mobile Strike Teams (MSTs). Each team is given an assigned code name of "MST" followed by a code word from the NATO Phonetic Alphabet and a number (Ex. MST Tango-7). Additionally, when out a mission, teams are given a temporary code name in order it facilitate communication and potential enemy intelligence efforts (Ex. "Firestarters", "Earthquake").

