---
title: "Security & Clearance Levels"
tags: ["information", "lore"]
page_id: "86650111"
site: "rpcauthority"
slug: "security-clearance-levels"
revision: 18
revision_id: "127206591"
author: 4240294
timestamp: 1529610336
---

+ Overview

Authority security clearances granted to personnel represent the highest level or type of information to which they can be granted access. However, having any given clearance level does not automatically grant access to all information at that level: personnel are only granted access to information on a "need-to-know" basis and at the discretion of the designated disclosure officer overseeing their respective departments.

++ Level-0 (Informal)
Level-0 security clearance is an informal designation given to D-class personnel and contractors who have no knowledge of the Authority. At level-0, all access to Authority knowledge is restricted and only the bare minimum of information should be divulged in order to ensure these personnel perform their duties, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.  

++ Level-1 (Confidential)
Level 1 security clearances designate a staff member who is a formal employee of The Authority but does not interact with or require access to RPCs. Level 1 security clearances are typically granted to personnel working in clerical, logistics, or janitorial positions at facilities with containment capability or otherwise must handle sensitive information.

++ Level-2 (Restricted)
Level-2 security clearances are given to security and research personnel that require direct access to information regarding anomalous objects and entities in containment. Most research staff, field agents, and containment specialists hold a Level 2 security clearance.

++ Level-3 (Secret)
Level-3 security clearances are given to senior security and research personnel that require in-depth data regarding the source, recovery circumstances, and long-term planning for anomalous objects and entities in containment. Most senior research staff, project managers, security officers, response team members, and Mobile Strike Team operatives hold a Level-3 security clearance.

++ Level-4 (Top Secret)
Level-4 security clearances are given to senior administration that require access to site-wide and/or regional intelligence as well as long-term strategic data regarding Authority operations and research projects. Level-4 security clearances are typically only held by Site Directors, Security Directors, or Mobile Strike Team Commanders.

++ Level-5 (Overlord)
Level-5 security clearances are given to the highest-ranking administrative personnel within the Authority and grant effectively unlimited access to all strategic and otherwise sensitive data. Level-5 security clearances are typically only granted to Global Directors and selected staff.

+ Personnel Classes
In order to facilitate organization and personnel management, Each foundation employee is assigned a class according to their role within The Authority. Personnel Classes are determined according to one's role within the Authority and his/her proximity to RPCs on a daily basis.

++ Class A
Class A designation is given to personnel who are in charge of managing Authority operations. This includes Site Directors, Regional Directors, Global Directors, as well as senior security officers. Class A personnel are considered extremely valuable to Authority functionality and, as a result, have security priority during emergencies. Class A personnel rarely have direct interactions with RPCs and are often forbidden to interact with anomalous objects altogether.

++Class B
Class B Personnel are considered important only for the day-to-day functionality of site and area operations. Most researchers, security-personnel, and support staff are Class B.

++Class C
Class C designations are given to non-essential staff of The Authority, and is given to personnel such as janitorial staff, mess hall staff, secretaries, and new recruits.

++Class D
Class D personnel are the human test subjects the Authority sources from death row across the world, as well as captured enemies and and Authority traitors. The Class D designation prohibits one from being assigned a security clearance.

++Class E
Class E personnel are contractors who are employed by The Authority without their knowledge. Like Class D personnel, Class Es may never be assigned a security clearance and in addition must never be informed of The Authority's existence.  

+ Security
The Security Branch of the Authority is responsible for ensuring the safety of all Authority personnel and recapturing RPCs that escape containment. Where there is an Authority presence, there is assuredly a security team close by to act on any threats they see. In addition, Authority security possess an advanced arsenal of small arms, artillery, and nuclear weapon should the need arise for large-scale offensive or defensive operations. Security personnel are hardened veterans, drafted from law enforcement and military organizations all over the world and ready to contain and neutralize any and all threats to the Authority. There are two components that make up Authority Security: Legion and the Mobile Strike Forces, which work with the Regional Security Directors to ensure the safety of the world.

++ Authority Security Force
The Authority Security Force (ASF) is the general protection arm of Authority Security. ASF personnel are typically assigned the following duties: staff protection, low-level asset retrieval, and first response. Additionally, ASF personnel are capable of large-scale warfare and possess a full arsenal of air, land, and sea weapons and vehicles. The ASF is structured as a traditional military, starting with fire teams of four all the way up to full-size battalions under the command of a Lieutenant Colonel. The Authority maintains multiple battalions on every continent and ocean. The ASF is known colloquially as "Authority Security" and should be referred to as such in official documentation.
++ Mobile Strike Forces
The Mobile Strike Forces (MSF) are the special operations arm of Authority Security. MSF personnel are the most highly-trained and battle-hardened operators in the entire world, and will go to any lengths to protect the Authority and the Earth. The MSF are assigned the most delicate and dangerous of missions: assassination, high-risk asset retrieval, infiltration, and low-information exploration operations. The MSF are equipped with the very cutting-edge of technology, with personnel supplied experimental weapons, implants, and utilities to ensure the job gets done. Unlike Legion forces, MSF has a relatively small pool of personnel; each Authority Region has an assigned MSF under the command of a Lieutenant Colonel, who is in charge of a platoon of MSF Soldiers. Within the platoon, there are typically ten squads, each composed of 10 man teams. These teams are referred to as Mobile Strike Teams (MSTs). Each team is given an assigned code name of "MST" followed by a code word from the NATO Phonetic Alphabet and a number (Ex. MST Tango-7). Additionally, when out a mission, teams are given a temporary code name in order to facilitate communication and thwart potential enemy intelligence efforts (Ex. "Firestarters", "Earthquake").

+ Staff Hierarchy

The Authority maintains a strict hierarchy to in order to facilitate organization and efficiency across all Authority operations. Below is a list of senior management titles, ranked in ascending levels of power, describing the personnel who ensure The Authority operates safely and effectively.

++ Lead Researcher/Team Lead

Lead Researchers are placed in charge of teams of scientists within their respective division. These personnel keep researchers focused and on task, as well as scheduling RPCs for testing. Team Leads direct goals within small, non-RPC focused groups, such as Electronic Systems.

++ Head Researcher/Department Head

The Head Researcher is placed in charge of a division (Ex. Bio-science, Memetics) within a site. He/she is in charge of setting the goals within a division, approving containment protocols, and coordinating with other divisions. Often, Head Researchers will incorporate nearby OL-sites as part of their duties. Department Heads are much the same as Head Researchers, but their duties are centered around non-RPC issues.
++ Site Director/Area Director

The Site Director is the boss of an Authority site. He/she assigns incoming RPCs to specific divisions, manages security deployment, and maintains close contact with department heads to ensure the safety of a site. As Authority areas do not host RPCs, Area Directors work closely with Site Directors to ensure information is stored properly as well as maintaining Authority infrastructure in a region.
These personnel are typically equipped with Level-3 security clearance

++ Regional Director

The Regional Director is in charge of an entire Authority region. Regional Directors coordinate large scale operations, approve site creations, select Area/Site directors. As a result, Level-4 security clearance typically comes default with the Regional Director position. Regional Directors locate their office in Authority areas and are forbidden to come into voluntary contact with RPCs, due to the sensitive nature of their position.
++ Global Directors

The Global Directors are the absolute top of the totem pole within the Authority. They set Authority-wide goals and have virtually limitless power within The Authority. Additionally, Global Directors manage relations with countries and work closely with the highest of government officials. Global Directors have unlimited access to the Authority database and are the only personnel who may grant Level-5 access.

