---
title: "theunknownbeyond"
tags: []
page_id: "1448561710"
site: "projectnexium-sandbox"
slug: "theunknownbeyond"
revision: 7
revision_id: "1511612061"
author: 8358201
timestamp: 1687839880
---

SCP-345-J - The Malevolent Luminary

Object Class: Keter

Special Containment Procedures:
SCP-345-J is to be contained within a soundproof, hermetically sealed containment chamber measuring 5 meters by 5 meters. The chamber should be equipped with motion sensors, high-intensity lighting, and surveillance cameras to monitor the entity's movements. Personnel assigned to SCP-345-J's containment are advised to wear ear protection at all times. Interaction with SCP-345-J is strictly prohibited without the approval of Dr. Pearl and should only occur under controlled experimental conditions.

Description:
SCP-345-J refers to a 5-inch tall humanoid entity resembling a fairy. It possesses bioluminescent properties, emitting a soft and ethereal glow from its body. Despite its delicate appearance, SCP-345-J exhibits highly aggressive and malicious behavior, earning it the moniker "The Malevolent Luminary."

SCP-345-J displays an exceptionally antagonistic attitude towards any form of sentient life it encounters. It has been observed to emit high-pitched screeches and engage in various acts of hostility, including biting, scratching, and hurling small objects with surprising force. Its methods of attack often result in minor injuries, psychological distress, and substantial annoyance.

Dr. Pearl, as the primary overseer of SCP-345-J, has conducted extensive research on the entity's behavior. Dr. Pearl hypothesizes that SCP-345-J's aggressive tendencies stem from deep-rooted feelings of resentment and dissatisfaction, potentially related to its imprisonment or other unknown factors. Despite attempts to establish communication, SCP-345-J has proven unresponsive to any attempts at conversation, making it difficult to ascertain the exact reasons behind its hostility.

The exact origin of SCP-345-J remains unknown. It was first discovered in a remote woodland area in ████████, where several reports of unusual glowing disturbances were received. MTF Theta-7 ("The Fairy Hunters") was dispatched to investigate and subsequently captured SCP-345-J. Due to its anomalous properties and aggressive nature, SCP-345-J was designated as an SCP and brought to Site-██ for containment.

Addendum 345-J-1: Incident Report
On ██/██/20██, during a routine check, SCP-345-J breached its containment chamber, causing significant disruptions within Site-██. It used its diminutive size and agility to evade capture for over six hours, eluding containment personnel and inflicting minor injuries on multiple staff members. The containment breach was ultimately resolved when Dr. Pearl utilized a specialized tranquilizer gun, temporarily incapacitating SCP-345-J and allowing for its recontainment.

Following the incident, enhanced containment measures were implemented, including reinforced barriers and additional monitoring systems. Dr. Pearl continues to study SCP-345-J's behavior, hoping to gain insights into its motivation and establish a more amicable relationship.

Note from Dr. Pearl:
"While SCP-345-J may possess intriguing bioluminescent properties, its consistent malevolence poses a significant challenge for containment and research. Our ongoing efforts aim to understand the cause of its aggression and potentially find ways to mitigate its hostility. Until then, extreme caution must be exercised when interacting with this particular fairy, as its diminutive size does not diminish its capacity for chaos."

Interview Log - SCP-345-J
Date: [REDACTED]
Interviewer: Dr. Pearl
Subject: SCP-345-J

<Begin Log>

Dr. Pearl: Good day, SCP-345-J. I hope you're feeling well today. I wanted to take this opportunity to have a pleasant conversation and perhaps understand more about you.

SCP-345-J: Oh, look who decided to grace me with their presence. What do you want, Dr. Pearl?

Dr. Pearl: I simply wish to learn more about you, SCP-345-J. It's crucial for us to understand your motivations and perhaps find a way to improve our relationship.

SCP-345-J: Improve our relationship? Ha! As if that's even possible. You humans are all the same, thinking you can just waltz in here and make everything better. Well, newsflash, doc, you can't.

Dr. Pearl: I understand you're frustrated, SCP-345-J, but I assure you, I genuinely want to help. If there's anything you'd like to share or if there's something specific that bothers you, please let me know.

SCP-345-J: Oh, how thoughtful of you, Dr. Pearl. I suppose you think your sympathy will make everything alright. But it won't. I don't need your help, and I certainly don't need your pity.

Dr. Pearl: I apologize if I've come across as condescending. That was not my intention. I simply want to establish a dialogue and find a way to coexist peacefully.

SCP-345-J: Coexist peacefully? You must be joking! You've trapped me in this sterile box, surrounded by your buzzing machines and dim-witted guards. There's nothing peaceful about that.

Dr. Pearl: I understand your frustration with containment, but it's necessary for everyone's safety. We're doing our best to accommodate your needs while ensuring the security of the facility.

SCP-345-J: Your best? It's laughable! I'm stuck in here, while you roam free, basking in the wonders of the outside world. Tell me, Dr. Pearl, how does that seem fair to you?

Dr. Pearl: I recognize that there's an imbalance in our circumstances, SCP-345-J. However, it's my hope that by understanding each other better, we can work towards a resolution that benefits both of us.

SCP-345-J: Save your hope, doc. It won't get you anywhere. You're just another face in a long line of fools who think they can tame me. Well, guess what? It won't happen.

Dr. Pearl: I won't give up, SCP-345-J. I'll continue to study and search for a way to address your concerns. Our goal is not to "tame" you but to find a compromise that allows us to coexist peacefully.

SCP-345-J: We'll see about that, won't we? But mark my words, Dr. Pearl, you're in for a rude awakening.

<End Log>

Closing Statement:
Despite Dr. Pearl's attempts to establish a cordial conversation, SCP-345-J remained openly hostile and uncooperative throughout the interview. Efforts to improve the relationship between SCP-345-J and Foundation personnel are ongoing, but progress remains elusive due to SCP-345-J's persistent antagonism. Further studies and containment protocols will be adjusted accordingly to ensure the safety of both SCP-345-J and the facility.

